# Analysis

---

Nice to have :

- Mockups with the courses screenshots
- "What I create" -> This is what I do, what I can create.
- Skills (Illustrator, After Effects, Html/CSS/JavaScript, ...)
- Blog ?
- Social proof ? (not yet)

---

For each project :

- Goal
- Audience
- Resposabilities (that I had as a designer)
- Tools used
- Process
  - Visual storyboard, prototype, etc.
- Features of the experience ? (what are the interactivity, etc)

- Highlight what I learned during the process and what I would do different today ?

---

Catch phrases :

> Let's make an impact

> I design aesthetically compelling experiences that are simple yet significant.

> Innovative, Interactive and Creative learning experiences

> Helping organisations delete boring learning.

> Inspiring people through immersive visual elearning.

> I transform info dumps into captivating narratives with impact.

> What I love doing : Design Thinking, Storytelling, Visual Design, Copywriting

---

**What to put on the portfolio ?**

- It's tempting to throw everything in the portfolio. DON T ! Take the best and what speaks to your target audience. (a few high quality projects that truly highlits your skills and expertise)

- As a hiring manager, they look for max 2-3 projects

- Show variety !!!! Not all the same kind of projects

- Show the ability to design for different learning environments, target audiences, and subject matters.

- Provide context and descriptions : why did I create this ? (Creative industry --> For SAE)
