# SIMPLE.

---

Vagueness causes uncertainty. Uncertainty paralyses our decision toward our goals. We have to relentlessly prioritize information to beat the decision paralysis.

> There is no sticky without **SIMPLE**

Simple = **CORE** + **COMPACT**

<hr style="border:2px solid gray">

### The CORE of our message

We need a **Communicator's intent**

How to find it ? Answer to this question :

> The **single**, **most-important** thing that my audience ¨**must** understand and remember is : ...

If we do that, we find the core of our message.

The core message doesn't need initially to be snappy and impactfull. The core message is for me, as the communicator. From this, we will use ways to make the whole message stickier.

> The **CORE** message answers the **WHY** question. Why are you bothering communicate this at all. What is that you want to change about the way the audience thinks or acts ?

Attention : Your core message cannot be a _fact_. It has to ask to the **WHY** question. "Why am I communicating this ?"

> Once we have the **CORE** of our message, we can make it **COMPACT** --> Simple.

<hr style="border:2px solid gray">

### Compact

**Strategy 1**:

> Streamline your message. Think of a movie editor that curates the best scenes, cutting all the rest.

- Don't use 20 slides when 15 will do.
- Don't use a 1000 word if you can make it with 500.

**Strategy 2**:

> Tap into messages that have already stuck. **Build upon it!!**

---

**Analogies** are a great way of making our ideas more compact. Why ? Because we build our explanation on something that other people already know in more details.

#### Anchor and Twist

**Anchor** your message on some concept people already know and give it a **twist** to explain your message.

Let's take an example on extremely compact concepts :

---

**"Uber for laundry"**

Notice how much is actually built into these three words! :

- How are you gonna access this business ?
  &rarr; An app on your phone
- Who's going to do the laundry ? A big corporation ?
  &rarr; No! It's going to be some other person who's doing this freelance in the gig economy. The app is going to match you together and collect your money, and they are gonna make money by taking a cut of the transaction rate...

All of this is _baked_ into **3 words!** Thanks to the `anchor and twist` structure.

---

**"JAWS on a spaceship"**

Movie pitch for the movie **Alien**.

- Is this movie going to be clean or dirty look ?
  &rarr; Dirty !
- Is this movie going to be a comedy or an anxious thriller ?
  &rarr; Anxious !

  etc.

---

Use the enormous advantage that we have of everything that people already know ! But we can still teach people that this new thing is different by adding the right **twist**.
