# UNEXPECTED.

&rarr; Grabbing the audience's attention.

---

We need to make our communication unexpected to **grab the audience's attention** !

> The simples way to get attention is to **BREAK A PATTERN**

We have a set of associations to anything.

As soon as something is "off" what we expected, we are surprised. Our attention is grabbed.

---

### How to create surprise

_"Crystallize and break a schema"_

##### Crystallize

> Highlight what the audience knows (or thinks it knows) about your topic. People should nod in recognition.

##### Break a schema

> Break out what's surprising or uncommon sensical about your idea. People's eyebrows should shoot up and their eyes should widen

---

Let's take an example : _DIET_

What do we think when we think of a diet ? It's like rabbit food : Small portions of carrots, spinach, salad and a light yogurt that don't taste as good as we want. We think of hunger, painfulness...

Well... The low-carb diet appears and say : What if you could eat hamburger, eggs, bacon, cheese and do this as much as you can without restriction and still lose weight ?

We **broke** our schema ! We almost don't believe it at first glance !

---

##### What if people don't know enough about your topic to have a "schema" ?

In that situation, what we might want to do is to create a schema for them, kind of fill up the buffer a little bit so that we can **react against it**.

We offer some initial information to familiarize them with some "default" and then break it with our message.

---

Let's take an example :

It's regarding healthcare... If I were to talk generically about how prevalent errors are in other industries, I might tell you :

How many accidents happen with airplanes ?

&rarr; **0,29** per million miles flown
In electronics plants what is the rate of defects ?

&rarr; **12** per million devices manufactured
What is the error rates for heart valves or precision plastics ?

&rarr; **0** per million!!!

I am here offering you some initial information so that you have some context.

Now, let's ask ourselves what is the error rate for medication administration ? What is the accuracy rate with which you get the right drug at the right time and the right dosage ?
Take a guess and open the dropdown :

<details>
<summary> Open </summary>

**100.000** per million prescriptions !!!!!!!

That's **1 on every 10**.

If you said "1 on every 10" in the first place, it would be without any context and therefore wouldn't create much impact. "Is this a lot ?"

</details>

---

> As communicators, we've got to sharpen the **contrast** in our ideas.

1. **Crystallize** : Play back what they think they know.

2. **Break** : Show them it's wrong or incomplete.

<hr style="border:2px solid gray">

### How to _retain_ our audience ?

We saw how to grab quickly the audience's attention by breaking a _schema_. But their attention must be _retained_ !

The secret is **"Curiosity"**, that can be generated by **Mystery**.

---

Curiosity emerges when we become aware of a **gap** between what we know and what we _want_ to know. This creates an unpleasent sensation that makes us willing to do work to fill the gap. That work is _attention_ and that's what we want as communicators.

How can I ger my audience to **crave** the information I'm providing ?

This is done through **TEASING**.

> Never give the answer before they got the desire to know it.

A little bit of effort to create questions and challenges about the message you want to provide can spark curiosity and can work to retain somehow the audience.
