# CONCRETE.

&rarr; Making the audience understand and remember

---

Language is **abstract**. Life is **concrete**. _Concrete_ is easier to understand, remember and relate to.

Abstract concepts demand a concrete foundation.

> It bring the unknown/vague/complex (_abstract_) to our common universe (_concrete_).

We virtually have to implant a _video scene_ into the brain of the listener. He must be able to "see", "hear", "touch", "smell", "taste"... in his head the message we're giving him.

Even some small sensorials details in a narrative automatically enhance the concrete perception we have of it.

In the business world, we are in the terrible habit of using conceptual, abstract and technical language... It comes especially from the _curse of knowledge_ and eventually from the willing of "sounding smart" to give more credibility to it. Bad idea !

---

Which is more concrete ?

`Be careful when you cross the road!`
or
`Look both ways before you step up the curb and cross the road!`

`Careful` is an abstract concept. We want our kids to understand immediately what we want: `Look both ways!`. He can imagine this sequence of events in his head.

---

### The hierarchy of concreteness

From best to worst :

- Actual experiences

  &darr;

- Photos, videos, props...

  &darr;

- Sensory language

  &darr;

  &darr;

  &darr;

  &darr;

  &darr;

  &darr;

- Abstract corporatese

---

### Examples, examples, examples...

Want to know the most beautiful sentence in the concreteness world ? :

> Let me give you an example...

We need to support the **core** message with a strategic sequence of stories/examples that reinforce a key point.

--

Think of these two sentences :

> I am really making an effort in my life to be more healthy.

That can mean a hundred different things ! The concept of `healthy` here is abstract.

Couple that with examples :

> I am really making an effort in my life to be more healthy, so I've started walkin 10.000 steps a day, I've cut sweets completely from my diet...

Now you get it ! You know exactly what he means by `healthy`.

--

**examples** provide **concreteness** that aids **understanding**

---
