# Identify With Your Audience

---

Many trainers focus on what they want rather than what the audience wants.

(order of importance : )

1. Why they'd want what you are giving them (emotional reasons why they are attracted to what you have to say)
2. How I will give it to them ?
3. What your audience wants The reasons they would say they are coming to hear your training)

A _takeaway_ is what they are gonna get when they come to your program.

IT HAS TO BE EMOTIONAL !

---

We must write curriculum that people actually want to receive.

How to identify with the trainees so they crave what you have to say.

---

Identify with your audience.

1. Identify their roles
2. Identify their goals
3. Identify their why

---

### Identify their roles.

**WHO**

Who you're teaching with the curriculum that you are designing.

Narrow down the target audience.
Three questions to test a target role :

- Do they have an irrational emotional need ?
- Desire to look for solutions to this need
- Few or no perceived options from their perspective.

```
If you're talking to everyone, you're talking to no one.

As you ask the three questions above, you want to eliminate 80% of the roles you brainstormed earlier and focus on the most powerful 20% in your mind.

You want to make these 20% feel like it has been customized just for them

Once this is done. Do it again ! Eliminate another 80%...

Tailor your curriculum to these last ones.
```

We have to think to who we market those materials to. (very specific)

Then we can combine this into one smooth story.

---

### Identify the goals.

The curriculum must appear like they are aligned with their goals (of the very narrowed public we got to)

You think you know their goals, but you don't. You must survey !

---

### Identify their why.

Why do they want to learn and gain this knowledge ?

Hit their incentives ! (even if it's financial, etc.)
