# Made to Stick

**How to Make Ideas Stick?**

---

**Sticky** = understandable, memorable, and effective in changing thought or behavior.

**S**imple **U**nexpected **C**oncrete **C**redible **E**motional **S**tories

---

### Simple

- Define exactly what the idea’s **CORE** is. Vagueness causes uncertainty. Uncertainty paralyses our decision toward our goals. We have to relentlessly prioritize information to beat the decision paralysis.

- Sharing the CORE has to be through a **COMPACT** message (in its several possible formats).

For an obvious reason: Compact things are much more likely to be remembered as long things are much more likely to be forgotten or discouraging to get toward.

How to pack a lot of punch into a compact communication: Tap into existing schemas.

(Schemas are a collection of generic properties of a concept or category. Schemas consists of lots of prerecorded information stored in our memories). Create analogies, comparisons, high concept pitches. (Speed = Die Hard on a bus).

A new developed concept can become a new schema which you can associate with other schemas to elaborate more complex messages.

---

### Unexpected

- Get Attention causing **SURPRISE**. Break the pattern to cause surprise, a state on humans that wakes our senses for a pause to collect information.

To be surprising, an event can’t be predictable. But, to be satisfying, surprise must be “post-dictable”: The twist makes sense after you think about it, but it’s not something you would have seen coming.

- Hold Attention (interest) by creating **CURIOSITY** The intellectual need to answer questions and close open patterns. Curiosity happens when we feel a gap in our knowledge. You have to point out a gap in people’s knowledge.

If they lack so much of knowledge having more of an abyss than a gap, you have to fill in enough knowledge to make the abyss into a gap. The way to get people to care is to provide context.

You have to create a gap that doesn’t seem insurmountable. It has to be audacious and provocative, but never paralyzing.

---

### Concrete

Tangible EXAMPLE/CONTEXT to reinforce the CORE

Bring the unknown/vague/complex (abstract) to our common universe (concrete)

CONCRETENESS helps people **understand** and **remember**.

-

Make **ABSTRACTION CONCRETE** Language is abstract. Life is concrete. Concrete is easier to remember. Make your idea concrete! (Concrete context). Abstract demands a concrete foundation.

-

Put **PEOPLE** into story Think about how game immersion’s reality sticks to you.

> CONCRETENESS helps people **coordinate**

-

Find common ground at a shared level of understanding. Set common goals in tangible terms. (Abstraction from upper level to concrete and tangible).

-

Talk about **PEOPLE**, **not DATA**. Data is abstract. Make it tangible for us, humans.

---

### Credible

We believe in:

(External Credibility)

- **Authorities**:

- Experts: They have studied. They know what they’re talking about.

- Celebrities: We want to be like them. If they believe this, so do we!

**Anti-authority**:

- “concrete authorities”. People that have been trough.

(Internal Credibility)

- **Details**: Make it seem more real. (Same principle of concreteness.
  Brings it to our common sense reality)

- **Statistics**: In an accessible way!!!! Make statistics concrete. Analogies.

- **“Sinatra Test”**: “If I can make it there, I can make it anywhere!”

- **Testable Credential**: “See by yourself”, “Test before you buy”, “money back if not satisfied”.

  ***

### Emotional

---

### Story
