# Build Professional Training

---

### Training framework

1. Create a compelling title. `Make it clear what this is about`

2. Make a bold claim `grab learners attention. Questions are good.`

```
What if there was a way to increase your revenue by 30% or more this year ? Would you want to know how to do it ?
```

3. Tell a story (give examples)

4. Organize content from general to specific `chapters to a book with subtopics... For each one of them use the previous points.`

5. Recap main takeaways from the high level concepts.

6. Call to action

---

### Creating Learner Engagement in presential training.

1. Train with energy, enthusiasm, and passion. `(upbeat)`
2. Use external sensory aids. `(Music, Photos, Artwork, Quizzes, Assesment)`
3. Make them move
4. Encourage group interaction.
5. Facilitate team-building exercises

---

### Storytelling (the loop)

Why telling stories work ?

1. Great way of grabbing attention. `evokes emotion`
2. Leave your audience hanging for a bried moment before you finish the story. `You "open the loop", then teach something valuable between the opening and the closing of the loop`

---

### Stories roadmap

**When to use stories ?**

- Opening of the training
- When tackling a new concept (examples)
- When closing the training `choose the emotion I want the class to leave with`

**Elements of engaging stories**

- Time (when did it happen)
- Place (where did it happen)
- Main character (can be you, a client, a friend...)
- Character must have a goal
- Must be a challenge/obstacle to overcome
- Resolution (wow dit it end up - success or failure?)

---

### Video

Go to medium today.

**Advantages**

- Accessibility `can be anywhere, any time`
- Higher retention
- Bigger reach `more people`
- Focused, edited content `can be tought through and will have much less errors`

---

### Alternatives to video

- Visual `images, reading`
- Audio `voice over, narration...`
- Kinesthetic `by their sense, painting, cooking, team-building...`

---

### Design

Look and feeling of your training is crucial !

- Relevant to your audience `actual photos of their environment, colors of the company, etc.`
- Professional looking `gain credibility`
- Design relevant to training material `should have to do with the content`

---
